for Russian hamsters it's all about
running in nature they cover ten
kilometers a night and often they have
to Oakland predators in captivity they
can cover the same distance by running
on the spawn and it seems they do it for
fun when scientists placed a wheel in
the wild mice took to it just as keenly
as this enthusiastic ham stuck like
human athletes exercise creates a rush
of endorphins the experiences of
runner's high at full pelt
he reaches six hundred strains a minute
four times more than the fastest
racehorse
moving x-ray shows that unlike horses
even went flat out he always keeps one
foot on the ground
he may be fast but nothing improves
performance like a bit of competition
[Music]
[Applause]
hamsters aren't the most sociable of
creatures it seems they're bad losers to
[Music]
the lose our settles for the consolation
prize while the winner goes for gold
[Music]
like wild hamsters he mostly runs at
dawn and dusk or when the time is right
enthusiasm can get the better of him
his racing instinct is so ingrained
little puts him off
[Music]
the quest for speed once vital for
survival
has become again
[Music]
and while he's been enjoying himself so
has the other hamster
[Music]